Rick
Rick Sanchez is one of the title characters from the Adult Swim animated television series Rick and Morty. Created by Justin Roiland and Dan Harmon, Sanchez is a genius, alcoholic scientist based on Emmett Brown from Back to the Future. Known for his reckless, nihilistic behavior and his rude, pessimistic personality, the character has been well-received. He is a mad scientist who seems to know everything in the universe and thus finds life a traumatizing and pointless experience. However, despite assuming to be the smartest person in the universe, there have been times where he has been proven wrong.

He is formally referred to as Rick Sanchez C-137 (alias: "Terror Rick") by the Trans-Dimensional Council of Ricks, in reference to his original universe, "C-137", and penchant for instigating wars with inter-galactic empires. Both Rick and Morty are voiced by Roiland. Volume 1 of the Rick and Morty comic series follows the Rick and Morty of Dimension C-132 while most issues of subsequent instalments follow the Rick and Morty of "C-137"; the video game Pocket Mortys follows the Rick and Morty of C-123.

Biography
Rick Sanchez from Earth dimension C-137 is the father of Beth Smith, and the grandfather of Morty and Summer Smith. He is said to have been away from the family for several years prior to the events of the show. He frequently travels on adventures through space and other planets and dimensions with his grandson Morty. In the third season of the show, it is revealed that he is 70 years old. Rick is portrayed as a mad scientist; utilizing his mathematical and scientific prowess in conjunction with apathy and egotistical cynicism, he emerges safely from any situation, regardless of the consequences of his self-preservation. Rick also, in some episodes, desperately tries to regain his family after losing their trust. The creators wanted him to look like he was in control strategically, but not at all when it came to personal matters.

In "The Ricks Must Be Crazy", Rick reveals that he powers his flying car with a battery that contains a miniature universe, or microverse, whose inhabitants unknowingly provide the required electricity. In the episode, the inhabitants cease to provide Rick's car with energy. This is because a scientist from the microverse, resembling Rick in many ways, has created his own miniature universe to supply energy for the beings of his universe.

Personality
Rick is a sociopathic, emotionally abusive, dismissive, narcissistic, self-centered, incredibly intelligent and alcoholic mad scientist who often drags his 14-year-old grandson, Morty, and sometimes other members of his family on dangerous adventures. His intelligence makes him believe that existence is miserable and pointless, largely due to his knowledge of infinite universes and timelines with endless possibilities. However, he has proven to be quite wrong on several occasions, even by his more naive grandson. While he has shown signs of loving his family and caring deeply about his best friend Birdperson, he has also been shown to be very self-centered, emotionally abusive and willing to threaten, harm or kill on a whim to get his own way. He does not fear to speak his mind and give his harsh opinions of the things about his family that easily irritate him. His huge ego and reckless, ethically questionable behaviour often lead to him making enemies and getting himself and his family in trouble.

Rick amerikai szinkronhangja

Mivel Rick egy alkoholista karakter a sorozatban a szinkronizálása nem volt egyszerû.